## Getting Started

### Installation

Clone the repo:

```bash
git clone https://github.com/3bu1/document-version-control-tool.git
cd document-version-control-tool
```

Install the dependencies:

```bash
yarn install
```

# open .env and modify the environment variables (if needed)
```

### Commands

Running locally:

```bash
yarn dev
```

Running in production:

```bash
yarn start
```

Testing:

```bash
# run all tests
yarn test

# run all tests in watch mode
yarn test:watch

# run test coverage
yarn coverage
```

Linting:

```bash
# run ESLint
yarn lint

# fix ESLint errors
yarn lint:fix

```

## Project Structure

```
src\
 |--config\         # Environment variables and configuration related things
 |--controllers\    # Route controllers (controller layer)
 |--docs\           # Swagger files
 |--middlewares\    # Custom express middlewares
 |--models\         # Mongoose models (data layer)
 |--routes\         # Routes
 |--services\       # Business logic (service layer)
 |--utils\          # Utility classes and functions
 |--validations\    # Request data validation schemas
 |--app.js          # Express app
 |--index.js        # App entry point
```

## API Documentation

To view the list of available APIs and their specifications, run the server and go to `http://localhost:3000/v1/docs` in your browser.

### API Endpoints

List of available routes:

**Auth routes**:\
`POST /v1/auth/register` - register\
`POST /v1/auth/login` - login\

**User routes**:\
`POST /v1/users` - create a user\
`GET /v1/users` - get all users\
`GET /v1/users/:userId` - get user\
`PATCH /v1/users/:userId` - update user\
`DELETE /v1/users/:userId` - delete user

**Object routes**:\
`POST /v1/objects` - create a object\
`GET /v1/objects/:key?timestamp=1000` - get object\


## Authentication

These routes require a valid JWT access token in the Authorization request header using the Bearer schema. If the request does not contain a valid access token, an Unauthorized (401) error is thrown.

**Generating Access Tokens**:

An access token can be generated by making a successful call to the register (`POST /v1/auth/register`) or login (`POST /v1/auth/login`) endpoints. The response of these endpoints also contains refresh tokens (explained below).

An access token is valid for 30 minutes. You can modify this expiration time by changing the `JWT_ACCESS_EXPIRATION_MINUTES` environment variable in the .env file.

**Adding token in swager**
In swagger UI click on "Authorize" button on top right side of swagger page and enter the access token for Authentication. 

**Refreshing Access Tokens**:

After the access token expires, a new access token can be generated, by making a call to the refresh token endpoint (`POST /v1/auth/refresh-tokens`) and sending along a valid refresh token in the request body. This call returns a new access token and a new refresh token.

A refresh token is valid for 30 days. You can modify this expiration time by changing the `JWT_REFRESH_EXPIRATION_DAYS` environment variable in the .env file.

## Authorization

An authenticated user can access this route only if that user has the `manageUsers` permission.

The permissions are role-based. You can view the permissions/rights of each role in the `src/config/roles.js` file.

If the user making the request does not have the required permissions to access this route, a Forbidden (403) error is thrown.

## Drawbacks in the tool

The DB architecture we choosed will lead to more space usage. This can be handled by saving diff of the document in another collection. 
This will lead to conflicts. We can implement push mechanism to let user know that value has changed and ask him to resolve conflicts. Eventually we will end up builing a proper version control tool. Thanks.